In this video, we will talk about
the challenges of ingesting and
processing big data and
remind ourselves why need any paradigm and
programming models for big data.
After this video, you will be able to
summarize the requirements of programming
models for big data and
why you should care about them.
You will also be able to explain
how the challenges of big
data related to its variety, volume and
velocity affects its processing.
Before we start,
let's imagine an online gaming newscase,
just like the one we have for
Catch the Pink Flamingo.
You just introduced the game,
and users started signing up.
You start with a traditional
relational database,
keeping track of user sessions and
other events.
Your game server receives
an event notification every time
a user opens his session and
makes a point in the game.
Initially, everything is great,
your game is working and
the database is able to handle the event
streams coming into the server.
However, suddenly your game becomes
highly popular a good problem to have.
The database management system in
your game server won't be able to
handle the load anymore.
You start getting errors that the events
can't be inserted into the database
at the speed they are coming in.
You decide that you will have a buffer or
a queue to process the advancing chunks.
Maybe also at the same time processing
them to be organized in windows of time or
game sessions.
However, in time as the demand goes up,
you will need more processing nodes and
even more database servers
that can handle the load.
This is, a typical scenario that
most web sites face when confronted
with big data issues related to
volume and velocity of information.
As this scenario demonstrates,
solving the problem in one step
might be possible initially.
But the more reactive fixes
the game developers add, the system
becomes less robust and
more complicated to evolve.
While the developers initially
started with an application and
the database to manage.
Now they have to manage a number
of issues related to this
infrastructure management just to
keep up with the load on the system.
Similarly, the database servers
can be effected and corrupted.
The replication and fault tolerance of
them need to be handled separately.
Let's start by going through these issues.
Let's say,
one of the processing nodes went down.
The system needs to manage and
restart the processing and
there will be potentially some
data loss in the meantime.
The system would need to
check every processing node
before it can discard data.
Each note and each database has
to be replicated separately.
Batch computations that need data from
multiple data servers need to access and
maintain use of the data separately which
might end up being quite slow and costly.
Big data processing techniques
we will address in this course,
will help you to reduce the management
of the mentioned complexities,
including failing servers and
breaking compute nodes.
While helping with the scalability of the
management and processing infrastructure.
We will talk about using big data systems
like Spark to achieve data parallel
processing scalability for
data applications on commodity clusters.
We will use to Spark Runtime Libraries and
Programming Models to
demonstrate how big data systems can
be used for application management.
To summarize, what our imaginary game
application needs from big data system.
First of all, there needs to be a way
to use common big data operations
to manage and split large volumes
of events data streaming in.
This means the partitioning and
placement of data in and
out of computer memory along with a model
to synchronize the datasets later on.
The access to data should
be achieved in a fast way.
The game developers need
to be able to deploy
many event processing jobs to
distributed processing nodes at once.
And these are potentially the data
nodes we move the computations to.
It should also enable
reliability of the computing and
enable fault tolerance from failures.
This means enabling
programmable replications and
recovery of event data when needed.
It should be easily
scalable to a distributed set of
nodes where the data gets produced.
It should also enable scaling out.
Scaling out is simply adding new
resources like distributed computers to
process more or faster data at
scale without losing performance.
There are many data
types in an online game.
Although, we talked about
time click events and
scores, it would be easy to imagine
there are graphs of players,
text-based chats, and
images that need to be processed.
Our big data system should
enable processing of such
a mixed variety of data and
potentially optimize handling of
each type separately as well
as together when needed.
In addition, our system should
have been able both streaming and
batch processing, enabling all
the processing to be debuggable and
extensible with minimal effort.
That means being able to handle
operations at small chunks of data
streams with minimal delay,
that is what we call low latency.
While at the same time handle processing
of potentially all available data
in batch form and
all through the same system architecture.
Latency is a word that we use and
hear a lot in big data processing,
here we refer to how fast the data
is being processed, or simply
the difference between production or event
time and processing time of a data entry.
In other words, latency is quantification
of the delay in the processing of
the streaming data in the system.
While some big data
systems are good at it.
Hadoop for instance is not a great choice
for operations that require low latency.
Let's finish by remembering
the real reasons for
all these requirements
of big data processing.
Making a different from processing
in a traditional data architecture.
Big data has varying volume and
velocity requiring the dynamic and
scalable batch and stream processing.
Big data has a variety requiring
management of data in many
different data systems and
integration of it all at scale.